# Research and Process Journal (Once upon a Time…)

by Nina Hanau

#### First statement & Motivation

At the time Veronica, Luisa and I did our first prototype called Rapunzel, I already had the feeling that I really want to work on this project through the semester. I had many ideas that I wanted to put into this game, and I was happy to see that Luisa and Veronica felt the same way, because I like to work with them. We all agreed to work on a walking simulator game that has some elements like Gone Home. Our game should let the player experience the fairy tale of Rapunzel in a completely different way. As games can tell stories in a more interactive way than books or films, this medium can represent every fairy tale in a new light and could also open the genre of fairy tale games. The story of our game should be based on the original fairy tale of the Brothers Grimm which was published in 1812. But we do not want Rapunzel to be rescued by a prince, we want her to rescue herself. We want the Players to slip into the role of Rapunzel who is locked up in a tower and has lived there all her life. In the game, Rapunzel should get suspicious about her mother and should have a closer look at her surroundings. While the player explores the rooms, he/she can find clues that showcase that the witch, who pretends to be Rapunzel’s mother, is not really her mother. When Rapunzel realises that she has a real family, she flees out of the tower. 
The main interaction of the player is walking around, looking at things and picking things up. When the player finds important objects, text messages that represent Rapunzel’s thoughts will appear to make the player realise what he/she has found and what that means for the story.  
 
#### Process Journal

* **04-07-2020**
Our game is finished! It was really stressful in the end, but we are done and have uploaded the final version on our itch.io page. The last hours were full of testing the last versions, because some small things still didn’t seem to work and there was always a weird bug that hindered the player from playing the game. The last version works pretty well though and I hope the bug won’t appear again. 
Now we only have to finish our individual video presentations and I will be responsible for making the presentation of our game. I’ll start with it today and probably finish tomorrow. 

* **03-07-2020**
I finished all my tasks and pushed all the furniture models as prefabs to our Unity assets yesterday. I also pushed all the audio files of my recordings and my mother’s recordings to our assets. The credits and the entry video are done, so the last things to finish are almost only about coding and making everything work.
In the last days (and nights) we girls often had some meetings to just sit together and get our stuff done together, what I really liked because then I didn’t feel so alone in my stress. 
Right now, most of the tasks are more for Veronica, because it’s about coding. Luisa and I cannot help her with this, but I feel really bad when she has to do everything on her own. So, I asked her what I can do for her to make it easier for her and she told me she would like to have a last to do list of what needs to be finished. Together with Veronica, I structured a small to do list for her. In the last days I also playtested the game quite often, to be able to tell Veronica what still doesn’t work too well. For playtest feedback, I am posting some sticky notes on the miro board that show what works out well, where I found bugs and what didn’t work so well. I also use our whatsapp group for feedback, because sometimes it’s faster and easier to understand to just send a picture of a specific bug or problem. In the next hours, I will continue to playtest the newest versions and give feedback. 

* **30-06-2020**
We had a meeting today in which we talked about how far we are and what needs to be finished. I already put the animation of the Witch into the Unity scene and I made a more detailed storyboard for the entry video and put it to the miro board. I wanted the entry video to look like a fairy tale book that opens and tells the background story on the book’s pages and introduces to the game. After finishing the game, the last ‘cutscene’ should show the fairy tale book again with the finishing picture and text. Afterwards, the book should close itself again, a -THE END- shall appear and the credits shall start to play. Veronica likes this idea and she wants to do the video like this. 
I finally finished writing the credits and I sent them to Luisa so she can put them over a fitting background from her artwork. Today I also recorded my voice for the text passages of Rapunzel. My mother volunteered to talk the Witch’s text for the dialogues, and she will do it tomorrow. What I urgently need to do is the modelling of the last furniture. 

* **24-06-2020**
Today we haven’t managed to hand in a working version of our game, because we all haven’t managed to finish all our tasks. The code was changed a little and is uncomplete, so the game is not playable to the end this week. But I think for us all it wasn’t a really successful week.
We distributed some more tasks today and I am responsible for polishing the Witch’s animation. I will need to make a walking cycle and an idle animation. And I still need to finish all the tasks I haven’t finished for this week of course.

* **17-06-2020**
The playtesting evening yesterday was a great success for us. Our game made huge process and was playable until the end. We got much helpful feedback what is really great for organising our last steps. After today’s lesson, we had a meeting and distributed the next tasks for the coming week. I need to write an ending text that is shown when the player finishes the game. Also, I will finally start to write the credits and I will design the last furniture that is needed (a fireplace, a sofa, flowers and other decoration). 

* **10-06-2020**
Today we had a call with Csongor and he gave us some feedback. After that my group and me talked a little longer about the tasks. For today’s version I didn’t manage to build the game room in Maya, but Veronica took this task and she made the game room already. Now I am only responsible for putting the windows in the right places. Today we also talked about the idea of voice overs and the others and me think it’s a nice idea to have it in our game for the text messages and also for the entry video. Still we won’t manage to do it until next week, this will have some more time we think. But I would really like to talk over the text messages. 
My other tasks for the week to come are writing dialogues for Rapunzel and the Witch, changing some of the text messages that should appear in the game and changing some small things for the Unity scene. Also, I need to write a new diary text for Rapunzel’s diary and a text for the Witch’s diary, because we now want the diaries to be placed in the game scene, so the player can find and read them while playing. We need to get our tasks done until Tuesday evening, so that our game is ready for the last playtesting evening.
Though this week, I will not do as many tasks as I should, because I also need to get my presentation for Narrative Design done. 

* **07-06-2020**
We ended up not having another call because we still have to much other things to do. But I posted the new topview and text storyboard to our miro board and the girls gave me feedback to it over Whatsapp. They think it’s very clear and understandable and there’s nothing wrong with it, what makes me feel delighted. 
When I was drawing the topview, I decided that it’s better to have two floors in this circular tower. Additionally, I wanted the rooms to be like they would be in a real two-person household, with kitchen, living room and a room for the mother of Rapunzel. With Rapunzel’s mother having her own bedroom, we gain a place that Rapunzel couldn’t have explored before. With this new plan, we have more hiding spots for the story relevant clues. 
The new text storyboard I made is way longer than the previous one and also more detailed. Like the old one, it clarifies all the mechanics and helps the girls and me to understand the sketches easier. It worked out pretty well the last time, because it was like a guiding thread for us. I think that it keeps us all on the same page and informs us about everything that should be achieved, what I really appreciate. 

* **05-06-2020**
Today the girls and I had a meeting and I could tell them about my concerns about the game room. We all agreed, that it will be the best to make a new game room in order to keep the logic. I told them that I will make a new topview of the game room and a new text storyboard over the weekend. 
In our meeting, we also discussed about other feedback we got from the milestone presentation and we know that much of the coding has to be improved. The girls also liked the small storyboard I made for the entry movie and Luisa would like to make some drawings for it. With everything discussed, we distributed the tasks for the next week. Next to my other tasks, I also directly want to design the new game room in Maya. But I think we will have another talk before I start to design, because I want them to see the room plan and storyboard first, because maybe they have improvement suggestions. 

* **04-06-2020**
The milestone presentation went really well, and we got lots of feedback of what we could implement and improve. One thing that made me think was some feedback of Csongor, because he pointed out some unlogic elements of our game. I immediately felt like we need to change these elements right away in order to prevent our game from looking somehow ridiculous. In order to change those elements, I realised, we would need a bigger room with more freedom and options to hide stuff. And fitting to that new room, we would need a new text storyboard, that shows all the new features and the whole playthrough. I like our game room and text storyboard a lot and I feel like it would be sad to throw the old plan away. Also, the fact that we didn’t even manage to make our game playable to the end with the current plan, makes me wonder if a new plan may be too much and too complex for us. But in order to avoid these unlogic features, I really think we need to change something about the game room. 
Yesterday’s feedback also suggested that we implement a kind of entry movie that introduces to the story of the game a little better than just the diary entry. I really think we could do that, what is why I already made a small storyboard of how this video could look like and put it to miro.

* **02-06-2020**
This evening our team had another call to talk about the final steps. We distributed the presentation and talked it through together. Luisa and I will present our game development tomorrow.

* **01-06-2020**
We had a talk today on how far we’ve got with the game, because the version 0.5 shall be uploaded to our itch.io page tomorrow morning. Veronica still wants to optimise some code until tomorrow, but I think our game is good for now. I will put our game with a description on the miro board of the milestone presentations. The Manifesto is almost done, and I will put it on our game miro board when it is finished tomorrow. I also got the Idea to finally give our game a better name, because we never were really happy with just calling it Rapunzel. We now call it “Once upon a Time…” what shows that it’s thematizing a fairy tale but doesn’t spoil too much about the game itself. 

* **27-05-2020**
For yesterday, I finished many other objects and elements than just the kitchen furniture, because yesterday evening was playtesting evening. I added small features like birds, plates, plants, bookshelves with books, painting buckets, a bedside table and a necklace. I also managed to make a smaller and low poly terrain for the outside environment. For that, I modelled a plane in Forger that looks like a landscape and then sent it to Maya and retopologized it there. 
Yesterday before the playtesting, our team had another call to test our game by ourselves and to talk about further steps. I must say that I was really impressed by our work and mostly Veronicas work, because the coding made a huge step forward in comparism to last week’s version. But also the new models make the whole room more lifelike. And not to forget the nice user interface part of the diary which is shown in the beginning of the game! Overall, I am very impressed and happy with what we have done so far and I am also happy that the playtesters gave us such nice and helpful feedback. Yesterday we didn’t separate any working parts, because we haven’t had the time for it anymore. That is why we had another meeting after class today. We talked about things that definitely have to be ready by next week, because next week is the milestone presentation! My task is to finally get the Manifesto done (it’s been on my to do list since 2 weeks!) and to add the final decoration models (curtains). I think for the presentation our team is relatively well prepared, because all we need is on our miro board, we just have to structure it a little more clearly. Today in class, Csongor talked about having background stories for the characters that appear in our game. In the future I will work on writing that background information, but as it is not super necessary for next week, I will do it a little later. 

* **20-05-2020**
After our game has been tested in class today, it was very obvious that we have a lack in the coding part. Cause without this, the game is not really playable. The problem is that Veronica is the only coder in our group and Luisa and I cannot really help her with any of that. But some of our fellow students nicely offered us their help, so our team had a long talk with Martin after class. He gave us some tips how we could improve our code to achieve things in an easier way. He also told us that our frame rate is pretty low and that the big terrain we have in the scene could be the reason for that. This is why I will try to make a low poly terrain for next week’s version.

* **19-05-2020**
After our team playtested today, it was generally agreed that the code has to be worked on further, as well as new objects have to be modelled and some interface design could be done. Some of the models Luisa and I started were not finished on time and therefore will not be included in tomorrows version. For the upcoming week, my job is to expand the kitchen furniture including animation.

* **13-05-2020**
Today we’ve got some feedback from the other students on our game. It helped me but some things were also stuff our team has already talked about before. Still, the reactions of the others made me realise that our team needs some guideline that always keeps us on the same page and shows us how exactly the gameplay and mechanics should work together with the architecture and code. What is why I created a text storyboard with a symbolizing sketch of the game room and added both to our miro board after today’s lesson. Luisa and Veronica had a look at it, and we had another call to talk it through. For Veronica this storyboard is very helpful because she now knows exactly which code is needed for the game. I think for us all it is very helpful to have these small, easy understandable texts that highlight everything our game is about. I was happy that I moved our vision a little further with this visualisation. 

* **12-05-2020**
Our team had a talk today and we tested the game together. The code doesn’t work pretty well so interaction is very limited. I wouldn’t even call it real gameplay, but this will just take us more time, I think. So, I am not super happy with what we achieved this week, but I guess this is only the case because I didn’t think it would be such an amount of work, because I have no feeling of how hard the coding is. We distributed the tasks for next week and I am responsible for making a better architecture of the game room, as well as adding more objects to the scene.

* **06-05-2020**
Ufff, we totally forgot to bring a new playable version to the class this week. I think one reason was that I wanted to get away from the models from the internet we used for our prototype as fast as possible. I wanted that it was all our work and nothing from the internet. But making all the models by ourselves would take some time. As we had no playable version today, we also didn’t exhibit our game on yesterdays playtesting evening. 
Yesterday our team had a private talk with Jella from Project Management, what helped us very much to organise ourselves and our project. After Jella left the call we kept talking for another hour so we all could get on the same page where we want to go with our game. We organised ourselves on our new miro board and collected all our ideas there. We also agreed that we will have a meeting in Teams every Tuesday at 4 pm so we can go over the things we achieved the last week and we can distribute the tasks for the next week. 
For the next week, we need a new playable version and my job is to create a top view of the game room in order to create the architecture of the room and to model the tower with the game room inside plus some basic furniture with animations. All the modelling tasks, I will do in Maya as I like to work with it the most.  

* **29-04-2020**
Veronica, Luisa and me very clearly agreed on one opinion, as we all want to work on the Rapunzel game in the future. I think we will be able work together in a team very well because all of us bring specific qualities to the team. I know that Veronica is great in coding and working with unity and photoshop, whereas Luisa likes to do art related stuff and story creating. I like to do art and game design and I can write texts if we need them. I’m looking forward to this project!

#### Final Statement
All in all, I am very satisfied with what we achieved over the semester. We were really successful while working and made much progress. The game in its finished version is a really nice game and a really great first digital game for a three-person group, I think. 
Coming first to the product itself, I think we can keep on working on the game over the semester break in order to polish it some more. It is a little sad that the voice overs didn’t made it into the game anymore completely, but I think my mother and I were just a little too late with talking them through. If we would’ve finished earlier, there would have been enough time to put it into the game for sure. But that’s the price for keeping everything to the last minute, I guess. 
On the other hand, I think we can still improve the movement of the witch and the design of the tower, as it still seems like there isn’t enough decoration. 
But I don’t want to sound like I would criticise our project, because I am really proud of it. The game has nice mechanics and could be a fun experience for players. 
Coming now to our group work, I think it was great to work with Veronica and Luisa, since I liked to work with both of them already last semester. Our abilities kind of complement each other, because everyone has their own specific strengths. Therefore, our tasks could also be distributed easily, as everyone did what they could do best. Still, I had often the feeling that I would actually like to learn more new stuff, so that I could also do other tasks for the project. But due to the time pressure, there was no time for me to actively teach myself new stuff that I could also use for the project. I would have liked to have a class that teaches for example the way of working with Unity more densely. Such a class would’ve also been nice to have already last semester. The thing for me is, that I don’t know what Unity has to offer to me and how to work with it properly. Though, I somehow get the feeling that it’s expected from us to know it already. As without Veronica, who knows about this stuff, this whole project would have been totally overcharging for just Luisa and me.
Moreover, this is the reason for me and Luisa having less commits in our repository than Veronica, since Veronica worked in Unity the most. Veronica never complained about this and always was really kind when we told her that we don’t have the knowledge to do a specific thing. 
In general, we always could speak our minds in the group. Everyone was understanding and kind and we never had a fight or else. I wasn’t scared to tell them what I think about a specific idea and I also had the feeling that they spoke up when they were not satisfied with something or when something wasn’t clear enough. Even if it was an online semester, this group work worked out really well and my group and me almost had contact every day via WhatsApp, also for topics of other classes. 
In the beginning of the semester, when we formed our groups for the games we would like to work on, I stated that I am interested in doing art related and mechanic related work. It turned out that I was more responsible for the game mechanics then I thought. But also, for the design of the level and objects and for the animations, because I like to work in Maya a lot. Moreover, I wrote almost every text that was needed for the game. The tasks I had were much fun for me and they were, as said, exactly what I could do best. Art related work wasn’t particularly my job, because Luisa can do this in a better way than me, I think. But I am happy, that I could put many of my ideas into this project and that the girls appreciated my ideas and plans. 
Overall, I had a great time, I’m happy with our result and I would definitely work with Veronica and Luisa again.

#### Related Work

* **General / historical information:** 
	-https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rapunzel
	-https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tangled

